My mother always said,
“Jehovah did not intend
for all of us to look alike.”
In those early days,
we would work every house in the county
—black families, white families, any color.
At school, there was pressure there
to be involved with the racial activity.
We would hear
about the problems and the issues.
It would be in the news,
and you would know
what was going on in the South.
Some may wonder,
‘How is it that our people,
‘that is, Jehovah’s Witnesses,
black and white,
‘could maintain such unity
when the world around them
was falling apart?’
I grew up in central New York
—Utica, New York.
And I remember
in the Kingdom Ministry  back in 1956,
there were articles
about serving where the need is great.
They needed some of the black friends
to serve in the South.
I married my husband, Earl McGee,
on June 2, 1956.
When we were married,
Brother T. J. Sullivan gave a talk
at the Hallandale convention
on serving where the need is greater.
He encouraged not only families but,
he said, newly married couples.
And so we planned for it,
and he wrote the branch.
We were assigned to Florida,
and then in 1962,
we started in the circuit work.
And our first circuit was in Alabama,
and it was not integrated.
We served together, Edna and I did,
in the pioneer work by assignment.
The last assignment was
the Society assigning us
to North Carolina and then
from there to the circuit work.
After the first circuit,
which was in the Carolinas and Georgia,
we were assigned to Gilead.
I got married on April 23, 1949.
I’ve been in full-time service
70 years with my wife.
I was assigned
to Circuit 18 in Alabama.
My first circuit assignment
was in Mississippi.
It had the reputation
as the worst state
in the Union for race relations.
And then after we got there,
there were three civil rights workers
who were killed in Philadelphia, Mississippi.
That was our circuit.
So those were the things we had to deal with.
We were busy in our ministry,
so it didn’t bother us very much.
The black worked the black,
and the white worked the white.
So we just obeyed the customary law
of staying segregated.
Lots of movements were happening,
and people were, you know, very hostile.
When there was a march or any tension
where we were serving there in Alabama,
we wouldn’t go
to the town on Saturday afternoon
to do street witnessing
because if there was a rally
or something going on,
we would just stay in the neighborhood.
A lot were what they
used to call back then Freedom Riders,
people getting on buses going south,
and people coming in to register voters.
The fact is,
some of the civil rights organizations
were set up in Mississippi
and going pretty strong.
So as a result, they would think
that because we were active
in going door to door,
we could just incorporate civil rights issues
and things like that into our work.
One of our classmates in the 27th class
was a black brother, a fellow student,
and we became very close friends there.
After we left Gilead,
we were going to our assignments
and we stopped at a convention in Alabama.
And the convention was segregated
—one race on one side
and one race on another.
And it was very difficult
—painful—
for us not to be able
to closely associate with our dear friend.
So we had this talk show on the television.
The circuit overseer and I went
and also a Catholic priest
and an Episcopal minister.
So the Episcopal minister, a young minister,
asked what were we doing
about the marching.
So I told him that we weren’t doing
anything about the marching.
Well, that showed a contrast.
I’m black, and he’s white.
They weren’t stopping
their marching to help us preach
the good news of the Kingdom,
so we weren’t going to stop
preaching the good news
of the Kingdom to help them march.
The brothers always
were interested in each other.
So if there was a black congregation
and a white congregation,
we had interest and fellow feeling for both.
The rule was we were not to meet together,
and we couldn’t meet together.
But we could talk to one another,
and we could visit one another.
So I think there was
great support on both sides,
black and white brothers, back in those days.
If we had a problem
getting a facility, for example,
they’d have contacts
and they could get certain things done.
So, basically, we worked together.
The congregation started integrating
after certain civil rights laws were passed.
We had a big meeting of all the elders,
and we worked out the territory assignments
and whatever else was necessary
to have integrated congregations.
Some friends would feel,
and maybe rightly so at the time,
that there would be
some violence if we integrated.
There probably were
some Kingdom Halls damaged
and things like that as a result.
But the fact is,
there was integration
going on in other places
—in the schools and things like that
and in the universities and colleges.
And so it was obvious that if they
could do it, then we even more so.
The process of integration
was successful
because it was under Jehovah’s direction.
Both black and white,
we had the same thing in common:
We loved Jehovah.
And despite us,
Jehovah got it done for us
and brought us together.
And we have been unified ever since.
Everyone could see that we were united.
One brother was working from door to door,
black and white, and a lady
came to the door (white),
and she said she was happy
to see this unity take place.
She had looked forward to it for a long time.
We have formed, with Jehovah’s help
by means of his holy spirit,
a worldwide brotherhood.
Granted, they have their imperfections,
but it is a brotherhood
and something to be truly marveled at.
The brothers began to feel
what we knew was true:
We’re all one organization.
They began to feel it.
They began to experience it.
We loved Jehovah,
and we loved our brothers,
so there you have it.
How could you fail to have unity
when Jehovah had drawn you together?
Satan is the prime one to divide people.
Jesus died for the whole world of mankind,
so who would that exclude?
No one.